Now to add real validation let's add a new shared element in the shared folder.
I'll add a utility folder and in their paste in the valley data stored J is follow you find attached.
Now it does is simply a file with some validation logic.
Now it's just one possible way of implementing this.
It is the way I opted for.
So what do we have in there.
First we have some identifiers some identifiers of different validator types for example to validate
for required input so that it's not empty.
A minimum length input a min or max value if we're talking about Numeric Input.
If it's an email address and if it's a file which will become important later in the course then I export
a couple of functions here.
All written in all caps which is not a must do but which I do here to make clear that they are kind
of the find globally in one place.
And yeah every function here is a really straightforward function that might or might not take an input
value and not the value the user entered but a value to configure dad validator and then it returns
basically a validator description an object with a type and then one of the identifiers above these
functions that do take input R D validators that require extra configuration.
For example the min length validator needs to know which Min length a string should have and that's
then stored in this Val property.
So in the end these functions return validator configuration objects.
You could say where every object at least has a type.
And maybe also has a Val and then I have a validate function as well which I export at the bottom.
And this function takes a value.
That's the concrete value the user entered into an input and then an array of validators and it then
goes through that array of validators and checks for the different types we are aware of and runs different
validation logic based on the type of validator we got.
This is what happens here and I've got some predefined relatively simple validation logic here because
I want to focus on the react part and not too much on this validation logic part here.
Of course you can find you and tweak this to your likings.
Now what do we do with the validators Jane's file.
Well we can go to our input component again and there we want to add some validation logic right.
So let's start by importing the validate function from you till folder here and then the validators
file not all the other exported things just to validate function.
And here in the input reducer we can then call validate and now pass an action that Val.
So the user input in our input field and action DOD validators that's an extra key we're not passing
yet which we also should provide.
So action validators now whereas action validators coming from well on the change handler where we dispatch
to change event here I want to add this validator is key.
And that should be coming from props.
There should be a validators props passed to the input component and indeed if we have a look at new
place which is where we use the input component I have validators here.
It's just an empty array at the moment.
But now with the extra utility file we can change this for Dad let's simply import something from
shared you till validators and do something I want to import here is the validator require function
here in the validators array we now just execute it and this return such a validated configuration object
as you learn.
So what's the idea here now.
With that we're passing all the information to the input element that it needs to know that for this
input we want to make sure the value the user enters is not empty because that is what a check for indie
validators J is file if you validate or type is required.
I check that the input is not empty and we will have that validate or type because that validated required
function we're executing in New place.
Returns an object where the type is set to validate or type require and I'm looking for that validate
or type down there in my validate function.
So this is how these things work together.
And with that we now safeties we start an invalid state as soon as I enter something it becomes valid
but if it then empty does again it's invalid again.
So now we have real validation here for this field which updates with every keystroke.
And that's of course exactly what we want.
But what we don't want probably is dead when we start here.
So when I reload this page that it's marked in red or right from the start.
Technically that is correct of course it is invalid but we want to give the user a chance of at least
entering one character before we start throwing errors at him.
So to do that we need to tweak our input component a bit more and lists not just 40 on change event
here but also on the on blur event let's say on the input and also of course on the text area on blur
is triggered when the user loses focus on the input element which means the user had to click into it
and then clicked out of it.
And that of course is a good indicator to us that the user had a chance to enter something valid and
if it's 10 invalid after losing focus then we want to show an error now for that I'll add a new extra
function near the touch handler and year.
We would also get an event but I'm not interested in it.
Instead here I want to dispatch a new action and it's a different action of course it's an action where
I set the type to touch.
I don't offer any other input because we need no operator input.
So now here we can point at the touch handler.
Also of course on a text area and we can now tweak our input reducer a bit in the input reducer.
I now want to make sure that we handle this touch case.
So there I want to return a state where I copy everything that's in there so that I don't lose the entered
value for example but I update is touched to true is touched as a new field I add here and therefore
I also want to add it on my initial state where is touched is set to false initially.
So I set it to true once this blurs here and change I don't set it but with this command I copy everything
from the existing state so we will have is touched the state as well.
We just don't change it here in this action type.
So now we do managed as extra information whether this has been touched or not and therefore now we
can go down to our J is ex code and only add this invalid class if the input state is not valid and
input state is touched as true.
So if it's invalid and the input was touched so the user had a chance of changing it the same here for
the error text only show it if input state is touched is true now if that does reloads and we see no
error message initially if I click in there though and I don't enter anything valid and I click out
of there we do see it.
If I then enter something it goes away unless we really enter something invalid again.
So this is now also working as it should.
With that we got basic validation implemented.
We're not passing the information about the validity and the entered value back to a new place though
and we should do that because ultimately new place is where we need to gather all the input.
Find out if the overall form is valid and then also submit a request to the back end later in the course
to create a new place on a server.